# React

_1\. Installation_ start by initiailizing and creating a `package.json`

`npm init -y`

_2\. Install babel_ We Sart by installing babel which will help in transpiling our JSX and ES6 file to readable files for our browser

`npm install -S babel-core`

`npm install -S babel-preset-es2015`

`npm install -S babel-preset-react`

_3\. Create .babelrc file_

This file will help to set the preset that babel will use `touch .babelrc`

add this to `.babelrc`

```
{

  "presets":["es2015",  "react"]

}
```

_4\. Install webpack and babel-loader_

`npm install webpack babel-loader`

## Webpack Config

The main addition in this step is the webpack.config.js file.

You will set six configuration options in this file. Here is the breakdown for each one, along with a link to the relevant portion of the Webpack docs:

- **context :** This is the path to your client-side JavaScript folder. This must be an absolute path.
- **entry :** This is the entry point for your application.

  ```
  var path = require('path');
          // lets create src folder become our context folder
          var config = {
            context: path.join(__dirname, 'src'),
            entry: [
              './main.js',
            ],
            ....
          }
  ```

- **output :** This section auto generates a folder where the files will be bundled `filename` specifies the name of the bundled files this will be our source file in index.html

  ```
  ...
      output: {
        path: path.join(__dirname, 'www'),
        filename: 'bundle.js',
      },
      ...
  ```

- **module.loaders :** This section specifies how each file should be processed before it is combined into your bundle. We only have one loader: Babel. This converts your ES6 + JSX JavaScript into ES5 before merging it into your bundle.

  ````
  ```
          ...
          module: {
            loaders: [
              {
                test: /\.js$/,                                // takes regex for file extensions to be used
                exclude: /node_modules/,        // specifies folders to exclude while bundling
                loaders: ['babel'],                     // specifies the loader to be used when transpiling
              },
            ],
          },
          ...
  ```
  ````

- **resolveLoader :** Where Webpack should look for loaders, like the Babel loader mentioned above.

  ````
  ```
      {
      ...
          resolveLoader: {
            root: [
              path.join(__dirname, 'node_modules'),
            ],
          },
      ...
    }
  ```
  ````

- **resolve :** Where Webpack should look for files referenced by an import or require() statement. This makes it so that you can import npm packages in your code.

  ```
  {
          ...
            resolve: {
              root: [
                path.join(__dirname, 'node_modules'),
              ],
            },
        ...
      }
  ```

# Compiling

To compile the modules add the following add the `compile` script to your package.json

````
```
// package.json
    {

        ...
        "scripts": {
          "compile": "webpack",

    }

  ...

}
```
````

after adding and saving run `npm run compile`

It should create a file called `www/bundle.js`

# Express

Install express and webpack-dev-middleware

`npm install express webpack-dev-middleware nodemon`

nodemon helps in restarting your server each time changes take effect

create a server check <server.js> in the root folder and [index.html](www/index.html) in `www` folder

in the scripts portion of `package.json` add

````
```
    {

      ...

    "scripts": {
        "compile": "webpack",
        "start": "nodemon server.js",
        "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
      },

      ..

    }
```
````

Type `npm start` command to run the server

the server runs at [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000):

Now you are set to introduce react

# Adding React

`npm i -S react react-dom`

You set to start creating your [components](src/counter.js)

### Git ignore###

add the following files and older to .gitignore
```
# autogenerated files 
  www/bundle
  node_modules

```
